#A22
Praise


Ps 9:1-2
<C>Importance of praise<C>.
The Bible often encourages God’s people to praise the Lord.
(1) The writers of the OT used three basic words to call Israelites to praise: the word <I>barak<I>; the word <I>halal<I>; and the word <I>yadah<I>.
(2) The Bible’s first recorded song came after the Israelites had crossed the Red Sea.
It was a song of praise and thanksgiving to God for the miracle of rescuing them from the Egyptian army.
Later, Moses commanded the Israelites to praise God for his goodness in giving them the promised land.
Deborah’s song specifically called the people to praise the Lord for victory over their enemy.
David’s praise to God is recorded in the story of his life and in the Psalm that he wrote.
Other psalm writers challenge God’s people to live their lives in a way that brings praise and honor to God.
In addition, the OT prophets instructed God’s people to praise him.
(3) The call to praise God is echoed, or repeated, throughout the NT as well.
Jesus praised his Father in heaven.
Paul expects all the nations to praise God, and James tells us to praise the Lord.
And in the end, the book of Revelation describes a countless multitude of both people and angels praising God without end.
(4) Praising God is one of the main functions of angels and is the privilege of all God’s people - children, youth and adults.
God calls all nations to praise him.
Everything that has breath is called to shout out the praise of God.
God even commands everything else that he has made in nature to praise him: the sun, moon and stars; lightning, hail, snow and wind; mountains, hills, rivers and seas; all kinds of trees; and all kinds of living creatures.
Everything God created shows his glory and that he is worthy of all praise.

<C>Methods of praise<C>.
Praising God can be shown in many ways.
(1) Praise is one of the main elements in a congregational worship service.
(2) Both in the church worship setting and in other places, the singing of psalms, hymns and spiritual songs is a way to express praise to God.
Praise can be expressed with the mind of understanding or with the spirit.
(3) Musical praise can be expressed through various instruments, including horns and trumpets, wind instruments such as the flute, stringed instruments such as the harp and lyre and percussion instruments such as tambourines and cymbals.
(4) We can also communicate God’s praise by telling others about his wonderful acts.
For example, having experienced God’s forgiveness, David was eager to tell others about what the Lord had done for him.
Other Bible writers urge us to declare God’s glory and praise in the congregation of God’s people and among the nations.
Peter calls on God’s chosen people to “declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light”.
In other words, mission work - bringing Christ’s message to other nations and cultures - is a method of praising God.
(5) Finally, living for God’s glory and honor is a way to praise the Lord.
Jesus reminds us that if we let our “light” shine, people will see our good actions and give honor and praise to God.
Paul observes that a life filled with the “fruit of righteousness” - godly character and actions that show love for God and what he says is right - praises God.

<C>Reasons for praise<C>.
Why do people praise the Lord?
(1) People praise God to express that they are aware of his presence and to celebrate the splendor of who he is.
We sing of his power, glory, wonder and majesty as the One who created the heavens and the earth.
We sing that we know the One who is to be honored for his holiness.
(2) People praise God because they have experienced God’s love and powerful work in their lives.
He has given them forgiveness, salvation and personal companionship.
His people want to express gratitude for his unfailing mercy, grace and love.
(3) People also praise God for specific times he has delivered, rescued or healed them.
(4) People praise God for his continual care and provision - both physically and spiritually.
All of these reasons, and more, are motivation for praising God with our song and testimony, witnessing and serving the God who is to be honored above all else.
